Congressional Republicans, evidently hoping that by repeating an untruth they’ll convince American voters, and perhaps themselves, that it’s a truth, on Wednesday said the Affordable Care Act has “failed.”||The undistilled version of this view came from House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), who emerged Wednesday from a meeting with Vice President-elect Mike Pence to assert: “This law has failed. Americans are struggling. The law is failing while we speak. … Things are only getting worse under Obamacare. … The healthcare system has been ruined — dismantled — under Obamacare.”||Every one of those statements is demonstrably untrue. How do we know this? We know because every measure of healthcare spending, access and cost has improved since the passage and implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Timothy McBride of Washington University in St. Louis has done the heavy lifting of pulling together the relevant charts and graphs, and posting them online in a series of 12 tweets compiled on Storify. We’ve culled some of the most important, and present them here.||We should add, first, that Ryan also pledged, once the GOP repeals the law, to “make sure that there is a stable transition to a truly patient-centered system. We want every American to have access to quality, affordable health coverage”||This is nothing but fatuous gobbledygook. The GOP has had six years to come up with an alternative plan, and never has done so. Its current strategy is to repeal the Affordable Care Act now, and then cook up a replacement sometime in the next two, three, even four years. (They can’t even agree on a time frame.) What exactly is a “patient-centered system,” anyway?||Here are the charts, courtesy of professor McBride.||First, the overall uninsured rate has come sharply down since the advent of Obamacare:|The uninsured rate for non-elderly adults fell from nearly 16% in 2010 to less than 10%, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It's now at a historic low.|The decline in uninsured rates was especially pronounced among lower-income Americans, according to the Council of Economic Advisors and other sources:||Uninsured rates fell by more than 10 percentage points among the poorest Americans eligible for Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act — those earning less than 138% of the federal poverty line.|Although Republicans claim that even if the Affordable Care Act brought down the uninsured rate, its enrollees had trouble seeing a doctor, that isn’t true. Numerous studies debunk claims that doctors shun Affordable Care Act enrollees. This sample by the Council of Economic Advisors shows that the decline in the uninsured rate is closely associated with a reduction in people who were prevented from seeking and finding medical care because of its cost:||Hospitals are major beneficiaries of the Affordable Care Act, as the Department of Health and Human Services and the Council of Economic Advisors report. Hospitals’ uncompensated care costs fell sharply in Medicaid expansion states, as patients treated as indigent in the past are now covered by Medicaid. Their uncompensated care costs fell from an average 4% of operating costs before the Affordable Care Act to less than 2% afterward, a decline worth tens of billions of dollars nationwide.||Overall national health spending has come down even faster than was predicted, as a share of gross domestic product:|||The average growth in per-enrollee spending by private health plans in key categories has slowed materially since the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, from annual growth averaging 5% in 2000-2010, to 1.5% in 2010-2015. Spending growth on hospital services, physician services and prescription drugs all slowed. Medicare, which has instituted numerous cost-control initiatives under the Affordable Care Act, has seen an overall decline in spending per enrollee.||Finally, even though employer-based insurance hasn’t yet been directly affected by the Affordable Care Act, there seems to be a spillover effect from the overall reduction in healthcare spending growth. Premiums rose by an average 5.6% a year in the 10 years prior to passage of the Affordable Care Act, but only 3.1% since, according to Kaiser Family Foundation’s annual survey of employer health benefits.|||Republicans have promised to give Americans a health insurance system better than the Affordable Care Act’s and at lower cost. This is almost surely a chimera; no plan that the GOP has considered would expand coverage beyond the Affordable Care Act. To the extent that the plans would reduce costs, they would do so by relieving the federal government of responsibility for paying for coverage and placing it even more heavily on the shoulders of individuals and families. That’s not lowering costs; it’s just shifting them to those least able to pay. The fact that the GOP will have to face is that bringing healthcare to more Americans costs money. Taking it away from millions of Americans will cost money, too.||No one claimed, either before the passage of the Affordable Care Act or afterward, that it was perfect or that it would solve America’s healthcare crisis in one swipe. What became evident in the three years since the individual insurance exchanges opened for business (on Jan. 1, 2014) is that the subsidies for premiums needed to be increased and improved. Because they’re inadequate, especially as households cross the threshold of 400% of the federal poverty line at which subsidies are eliminated — at about $97,200 for a family of four — middle-class families in the individual insurance market feel overburdened. They blame Obamacare for this injustice. The real culprits are Republicans who have refused to consider any approach to the Affordable Care Act except repeal. Now the GOP is “it” on healthcare, and it’s discovering that crafting a solution from scratch may be almost impossible.||What became evident during the most recent open-enrollment period for Obamacare exchanges is that “Obamacare is more popular than ever,” as Kevin Drum of Mother Jones observes. Enrollment grew to 12 million, up by about 1 million from 2015, even in the face of higher premiums. In any case, more than 85% of all enrollees are entitled to subsidies, which limits and in some cases cancels out the higher prices.||Yet the GOP pledges to overturn all that. The question the party never has found an answer to is: If this is what a failure looks like, how would it define a success?
DEVELOPING: An Internet video purports to show the beheading of US reporter Steven Sotloff by the Islamic State extremist group.||The global terror intelligence firm SITE first reported the release of the video, titled "A Second Message to America," in which Sotloff, a 31-year-old freelance journalist, speaks to the camera before a cloaked Islamic State fighter decapitates him.||“I’m sure you know exactly who I am by now and why I am appearing,” Sotloff said. "Obama, your foreign policy of intervention in Iraq was supposed to be for preservation of American lives and interests, so why is it that I am paying the price of your interference with my life?”||The video then cuts to the masked militant warning that as long as U.S. missiles “continue to strike our people, our knife will continue to strike the necks of your people.” He also threatens the life of British captive David Cawthorne Haines.||The grim video comes just days after Sotloff's mother, Shirley, directly addressed the leader of the Islamic State last week, saying her son shouldn't pay for U.S. government actions in the Middle East and that he cared about the weak and oppressed as a journalist.||"I want what every mother wants, to live to see her children's children," she said last week. "I plead with you to grant me this."||Shirley Sotloff cited by name the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who has described himself as a caliph intending to lead the Muslim world. She had asked him to show mercy and follow the example of the prophet Muhammad in protecting people of Muslim, Jewish and Christian faiths.||Sotloff was last seen in August 2013 in Syria. He was recently threatened with death by the militants on a video unless the U.S. stopped airstrikes on the group in Iraq. The same video showed the beheading of fellow American journalist James Foley, 45.||Several U.S. officials, including U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., have said they were working behind the scenes to find out more about Sotloff and try to secure his release.||White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest could not confirm the reports when asked about the video at Tuesday’s press briefing. He noted the administration has been monitoring his situation carefully since threats were first made.||“The United States, as you know, has dedicated significant time and resources to try and rescue Mr. Sotloff,” he said, adding “thoughts and prayers” are with the family.||State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the intelligence community will work “as quickly as possible” to determine the video’s authenticity.||"If the video is genuine, we are sickened by this brutal act taking the life of another innocent American citizen,” she told reporters.||Pressed by Fox News, Psaki would not say whether this would constitute an act of war. She said the prior execution of journalist James Foley was a “horrific terrorist act,” and was a “motivating” factor for creating a coalition to address the Islamic State.||The Associated Press contributed to this report.
In designing its first wearable device in the Apple Watch, Apple looked to incorporate a variety of highly advanced health functions with an eye on creating a holistic monitoring device, but ultimately scrapped those plans due to technological and regulatory hurdles.||According to The Wall Street Journal, sources claim Apple Watch was supposed to be much more than the device unveiled last year and slated to launch in April. Specifically, Apple executives wanted to produce a cutting edge health-monitoring tool, one capable of measuring a user's blood pressure, heart rate, stress level and more, said people familiar with the matter.||The publication says the setbacks forced Apple executives into a corner when it came to marketing the device to the general consumer. As it stands, Apple Watch boasts a variety of sensors, including accelerometers, touch inputs and a bespoke optical heart rate sensor, the latter of which connects to the iOS Health app for fitness and wellness tracking. While polished and presented in a slick package, Apple Watch is powered by technology on a par with competing devices running flavors of Android.||Aside from catchall smartwatch devices, a number of standalone solutions for off-the-shelf medical style monitoring already exist in the form of products — usually wrist-worn — from smaller manufacturers and startups. For example, the W/Me band incorporates a specialized sensor to measure a user's autonomic nervous system for keeping track of stress levels, while the latest products from Fitbit tout all-day heart rate monitoring.||Apple started development of its Watch four years ago, with an eye on health and fitness, but the project was quickly dubbed a "black hole" for sucking in resources. Advanced technology and component reliability failed to meet Apple's rigorous standards, sources said.||For example, skin conductivity sensors showed promise in early designs, but later testing showed actual results varied person to person, with everything from hairy arms to strap tightness contributing to unreliable readings. The company also investigated incorporating blood pressure and blood oxygen measurement features, but results were inconsistent.||Apple is seemingly investing on health-minded devices and programs, as evidenced by recently discovered job postings, but will take a more mainstream approach for the first generation Watch. Instead of focusing exclusively on health and fitness, the device is being positioned as a niche-filling fashion accessory, iOS compatible smartwatch, iPhone companion and daily communicator, among others.||Apple Watch does, however, sport a few Apple-only features, including Apple Pay integration and WatchKit development tools that are expected to foster a rich ecosystem of bite-sized apps later this year.
Iraqi forces reach centre of northern city of Baiji in attempt to break the Isis siege of the country’s biggest refinery||Authorities in Iraq were tonight investigating claims that the Isis leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi had been “critically injured” in US-led air strikes, prompting speculation of his death.||The death of the elusive leader would mark a significant change in the US-led effort to curtail the Islamist extremist group. Britain’s chief of the defence staff, General Sir Nicholas Houghton, warned, however, that the Isis leadership would regenerate even if Baghdadi had been killed.||General Houghton told the BBC: “I can’t absolutely confirm that Baghdadi has died. Even the Americans themselves are not yet in a position to do that. Probably it will take some days to have absolute confirmation.”||Friday’s strikes destroyed an Isis convoy near the Iraqi city of Mosul, but US officials said it was unclear whether the group’s top commander had been in any of the 10 targeted vehicles. Tribal sources told the Saudi news channel Al Arabiya that after the strike Isis members scrambled to transport the wounded to al-Qaim hospital which was overwhelmed with the injured.||Meanwhile, Iraqi military forces reached the centre of the northern city of Baiji on Sunday, trying to break the Isis siege of the country’s biggest refinery, outside the city. This led to fierce fighting. Sunni insurgents had seized Baiji in June, during a lightning advance through northern Iraq. Since then, they surrounded the refinery and halted its production, while a detachment of government troops inside has held out for months under siege.||An Iraqi colonel said troops had entered Baiji, a city of about 200,000 people, from the south and west and took over the al-Tamim neighbourhood and city centre. Isis had placed bombs along the roads and deployed snipers to keep the government forces from advancing – tactics used in other cities held by the ultra-hardline Sunni group, which controls swathes of both Iraq and Syria.
Hewlett-Packard is officially splitting in two. Following rumors over the weekend, HP is announcing today that it will separate its PC and printer division from its enterprise and services business. The split means current CEO Meg Whitman will become the chairman of the PC and printer operation, and continue as CEO of the split-off enterprise business. Dion Weisler, an executive at HP’s PC business, will take over as CEO of the company’s PC and printer operation.||HP Enterprise is the newly split-off part of the original company, and HP Inc will continue to focus on PCs and printers. "The decision to separate into two market-leading companies underscores our commitment to the turnaround plan," says HP CEO Meg Whitman. "It will provide each new company with the independence, focus, financial resources, and flexibility they need to adapt quickly to market and customer dynamics, while generating long-term value for shareholders." HP is planning to complete the split by the end of fiscal 2015, and the structure will mean the company's total planned layoffs will rise to 55,000 from an earlier estimate of 45,000 to 50,000 cuts.||Today’s split is a significant change for the company, following rumors from 2011 that HP was considering a similar split at the time. Those reports surfaced shortly before HP appointed Meg Witman as CEO, just 11 months after former CEO Leo Apotheker took over from Mark Hurd after he was forced to resign amidst charges of inappropriate business conduct. Apotheker spearheaded a disastrous acquisition of Autonomy, and failed to capitalize on the company’s purchase of webOS.||Whitman’s era at HP has seen the company struggle to cement a solid position in the industry, leaving Lenovo to dominate PC sales worldwide. Whitman’s initial assessment of the company after around six months left her feeling it was "too complex and too slow," noting it had underinvested in its PC division. Instead of significant investment, Whitman claimed in 2012 that the company had to offer a smartphone, before failing to announce one in 2013. Board members reportedly mulled spinning off the company’s consumer PC business in 2013, but it never happened. HP has recently focused on Android tablets, and even an Android laptop, after describing Microsoft as an "outright competitor."||HP and Microsoft appear to be forming a closer relationship with the launch of new low-cost Stream PCs. Although Lenovo continues to push Windows-based PCs, Microsoft still needs close PC allies as it demonstrated with a $2 billion loan to help Dell go private last year. That particular deal may have angered HP, but the renewed partnership will see Microsoft and HP take on Chromebooks this holiday season. HP is also planning to sell a smartwatch this fall.||A new HP says it will focus on "new computing experiences" and technologies like 3D printing. "As the market leader in printing and personal systems, an independent HP Inc. will be extremely well positioned to deliver that innovation across our traditional markets as well as extend our leadership into new markets like 3-D printing and new computing experiences -- inventing technology that empowers people to create, interact and inspire like never before," says Dion Weisler, head of HP's Printing and Personal Systems business.
“The aerial shot enables viewers to see the full body of the crab, including its pinchers and legs,” says the AOL article.|The article also mentions a man who runs a website devoted to the weird and unusual. He reportedly thought the creature in question was initially driftwood with a striking resemblance to a crab, but then later explained he now thinks the crab is real.|By the way, the largest known crab in the world is the Japanese spider crab. But even that one only measures up to about one-fourth the size of this alleged “Crabzilla.” They can measure 12 feet across from claw to claw and weigh up to 40 pounds.|Agencies/Canadajournal
Last week, President Cristina Kirchner adopted a Jewish teenager named Yair Tawil and posted pictures of the event on her Twitter feed. Outlets around the world ran with the story, explaining the move by citing lingering local superstition about werewolves. In Western folklore, only a werewolf can create another werewolf with its bite, but in Argentina, the story's a little different: the creature is born when a couple gives birth to their seventh son in a row. According to said folklore, seventh sons turn into el lobizon on their 13th birthday if nothing is done about the hereditary curse. Thus, the need for presidential action is pretty clear.||"The notion of animal shifting came from different Native American traditions," Oscar Chamosa, a folklorist at the University of Georgia, told me. "The idea of el lobison comes from uturunco—or the were-jaguar—which mixed with the European notion of the werewolf." Chamosa says he's not sure how the idea was first associated with teenaged boys.||But even if someone who's devoted his entire life to studying Argentine folklore can't explain it, the teen werewolf thing had become pervasive by the early 20th century, and Catholics in Argentina were producing enough seventh children, that the myth became a public policy problem. After all, terrified parents were (according to legend, at least) regularly committing infanticide.||"In order to counteract the myth, Argentine presidents have traditionally godfathered any child born into the same family," Chamosa explains, adding that the governor of a province or mayor of a village would sometimes officiate for practical reasons. "The rationale is that the godson of a president would be respected throughout his life despite the suspicion his seventh-male birth position would bring with it."||This idea apparently prevented people from murdering their own babies, so it was a smart move on part of the Argentine government. But if it's surprising people believed in such a curse a century ago, it's downright bizarre that they're still entertaining the notion of it today.||As per a decree that came out in 1973, adoptees receive a gold medal and a college scholarship. And Argentina is apparently still making new rules about werewolf children, because in 1999 the adoption ceremony was extended to non-Catholics. As the Independent noted, Tawil is the first Jewish boy to receive the honor. So while a werewolf Bar Mitzvah might be a joke on 30 Rock, it's also apparently a real thing that just happened in South America.||The boy's parents first applied for the medal and scholarship in 1993, but were denied. They applied again after the rules changed to include Jews in 2009. A tweet from President Kirchner's account shows her lighting a menorah with the Tawils, quite the gesture given that the Jewish population of Argentina is less than half of one percent.||Jewishpublications are making a big deal out of the historic event, and angry commenters are freaking out about a Jew being adopted—even symbolically—by a non-Jew and the blasphemous concept of a Jewish family taking part in something involving werewolves. (In Jewish folklore, people don't turn into werewolves, and whatever they were before beasthood is never really discussed.)||But most observers have been glossing over the absolutely fucking strange juxtaposition between a groundbreaking event and an ancient superstition. Like, for instance, that's it's kind of a weird move to progressively bequeath a privilege to a religious minority while tacitly legitimizing the belief that human beings have the ability to transform into mythical creatures that feast on unbaptized babies.||Stories about the adoption would also have us believe the president of an industrialized nation believes in werewolves, which is clearly not the case. Although presidents in our own country's recent memory believed they were chosen by God, Chamosa describes Argentina's Kirchner as a nominal Catholic who's a "progressive left-wing president—more like a Marxist and a secular person in general." Much as our Dear Leader pardons a turkey every year, this is an Argentine ritual that's basically a national inside joke.||Chamosa says that the werewolf thing has stuck around out of quaint tradition and that the average family in the country today has only two children. For that reason, anyone who achieves an unbroken chain of seven same-sex children is rewarded with the prize.||Of course, that doesn't mean there aren't some people in Latin America who still believe in el lobizon.||"Belief in the healing powers of folk saints and withcraft are pretty much shared across the territory, especially—but not only—in rural areas," Chamosa says. "I would say that only old people still believe [in el lobison]. But you really don't know."||Follow Allie Conti on Twitter.
Oregon State's trip home from Los Angeles was delayed Saturday after a scorpion stung a woman aboard the commercial plane.||An Alaska Airlines spokesperson confirmed in an email to ESPN that the incident occurred while the plane was on the tarmac.||[+] EnlargeWayne Tinkle|Godofredo Vasquez/USA TODAY Sports|Oregon State coach Wayne Tinkle said a woman sitting two rows in front of him on the team's commercial flight was stung by a scorpion. "The woman was a real champ," he said. "She acted like it was a mosquito bite."|The woman reported being stung on the hand, and the plane returned to the gate, where she was checked by medical personnel but declined further treatment.||Alaska Airlines stated that it is uncertain how the scorpion got on the plane but acknowledged that the flight originated in Los Cabos, Mexico, where the plane was on the ground for approximately one hour.||Reached by phone aboard the plane Saturday night before the team took off for Oregon, Beavers coach Wayne Tinkle told ESPN that the woman was sitting two rows in front of him.||"The plane was coming from Mexico before us, and [the scorpion] was on the plane,'' Tinkle said. "The woman was a real champ. She acted like it was a mosquito bite. They got it off her but the needle was stuck."||Alaska Airlines stated that flight attendants killed the scorpion before maintenance staff checked the plane's overhead bins. The airline planned to have an exterminator "thoroughly check the plane" once the flight arrived in Portland.||The Beavers lost to USC 68-55 earlier Saturday night.
A five-year-old has been handed an invoice and his parents threatened with court action - for missing his friend's birthday party.||Derek Nash and his partner Tanya Walsh discovered the £15.95 "no show fee" invoice after it was slipped into their son Alex's school bag.||Mr Nash said he originally "thought it was a joke", but the issue has remained unresolved with the birthday boy's mother, Julie Lawrence, threatening small claims court.||His partner confronted Ms Lawrence in a series of posts on Facebook in a bid to resolve the situation.||The family confirmed their son would be attending the party at the Ski Slope and Snowboard Centre just before the Christmas holidays.||However, Mr Nash, from Torpoint, Cornwall, realised he had already arranged for their daughter to go on a day trip with her grandparents.||He said: "She saw me and asked if Alex was coming to the party. At this time I agreed and said that Alex was looking forward to it.||"By this time we did not have a contact number, email or an address to let [the boy's mother] know. So on the day of the party we asked Alex what he wanted to do - he chose to be with his grandparents."||Alex returned to Torpoint Nursery and Infant School on January 6, but the family were shocked to receive the bill just over a week later.||Mr Nash added: "My partner looked out for [the friend's mother] to apologise for Alex not showing up to the party, but didn't see her.||"But on January 15 she looked in Alex's school bag and found a brown envelope. It was an invoice for £15.95 for a child's party no show fee.||"I asked Alex's class teacher if [the child's mother] had given anything to her. She said, 'Yes, a brown envelope'.||"I then visited Alex's school head teacher, who couldn't apologise enough that one of the teachers had passed this on. She said she would remind all staff that this was a breach of protocol.||"I left the school and went to see [the birthday boy's mother] as her address was on the invoice. When she answered the door I told her I had found the invoice in my son's school bag and that I wasn't happy about it.||"I told her I would not be paying her the money. I told her she should have spoken to me first and not put the invoice in my son's school bag.||Julie Lawrence and her husband Simon||"I would have sympathised with her about the cost of Alex not showing up, but I just can't believe the way she has gone around it."||Ms Lawrence has since threatened the family that she would take the case to a small claims court, while the birthday boy will no longer play with Alex at school.||Mr Nash added: "I drive all around the south west for my job and I have talked to quite a few people about this. They're all quite incredulous that this has happened. I thought it was a joke to begin with. I am lost for words."||Ms Lawrence said the boy's non-attendance left her out of pocket and insisted his parents did have details to tell her he was not going.||She said in a statement: "All details were on the party invite. They had every detail needed to contact me."
The video comes after the beheading of journalist James Foley last month||Kashmira Gander writes for the Independent and Independent on Sunday||Tuesday 02 September 2014||Islamic State (IS) fighters have released a video which they claim shows the beheading of US journalist Steven Sotloff, followed by a threat that a British hostage could be next.||Sotloff, 31, who freelanced for Time and Foreign Policy magazines, had last been seen in Syria in August 2013 where he was working as a reporter.||Last month, he appeared at the end of a video released online by the extremist group formerly known as Isis that showed the beheading of fellow American journalist James Foley.||In the footage last month, Sotloff was pictured dressed in an orange jumpsuit against the backdrop of an arid landscape. IS fighters then threatened to kill Sotloff unless the US stopped air strikes against the group in Iraq.||The video distributed today begins with a short excerpt from a speech by US President Barack Obama on the fight against terror, followed by text that reads: "A second message to America". The IS fighter, who suggests he is the same man who killed Mr Foley, says: "I'm back, Obama, and I'm back because of your arrogant foreign policy towards the Islamic State...despite our serious warnings."||He then appears to be behead Mr Sotloff.||The footage ends with the threat of presenting a British hostage, and issuing a warning to "back-off and leave our people alone."||Journalist Steven Sotloff, left, pictured in Libya in 2011 (Getty)  The White House has said it cannot confirm the authenticity of the video. Spokesman Josh Earnest said US officials were checking the reports, BBC New reported.||A US terrorism watchdog, the SITE Intelligence Group, first reported the video's existence.||Following Mr Foley's death, Mr Sotloff's mother had appealed to IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi to spare her son's life.||In a video in which she directly addressed the IS leader, she urged that her son was an "an innocent journalist" who had no control over US policy in the Middle East.||Additional reporting by Reuters and AP
