Saudi Arabia's national airline plans to keep men and women apart after passengers objected to on-board gender mixing, the Emirates247 news website reported Wednesday.  "There are solutions to this problem," said Abdul Rahman Al Fahd, the assistant manager of national carrier Saudia. "We will soon enforce rules that will satisfy all passengers," Saudi daily Ajel quoted him as saying.  The paper said flight staff at Saudi Arabia's airports would be instructed to keep men and women segregated on board Saudia planes, unless they are close relatives.  Complaints about mixed-gender sitting are also common on planes flying to Israel, with some ultra-Orthodox Jewish men refusing to sit next to unrelated women and some women objecting to being asked to move so that the men won't have to sit next to them.  A Delta flight from New York to Israel was delayed earlier this month when ultra-Orthodox passengers refused to sit between two women, Israel Radio reported on Friday.  A number of similar incidents were reported in the media earlier this year, bringing the controversial issue into the headlines. In some cases, the men reportedly offered to pay the female passengers to switch their seats.  In September, a petition on Change.org urged Israeli carrier El Al to stop allowing female passengers to be "bullied, harassed, and intimidated into switching seats." El Al told Haaretz that its policy is "to try to accommodate any customer request.”
Apple is reportedly planning to expand its 2015 iPhone lineup to include a new 4-inch model, according to Asian sources [Google Translate] cited by G for Games. The smaller form factor would bring back the ease of one-hand usage that was lost when Apple introduced its larger iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus handsets. The supply chain sources suggest the new phone may debut in the second half 2015 with female users as the targeted audience for the smaller phone.  Even without a new 4-inch model, Apple's history of product lineups suggests the 4-inch iPhone 5s would remain in the lineup in 2015 as the low-end offering once the current models slide down and the iPhone 5c is presumably discontinued. But if Apple wants to maintain a 4-inch option beyond the 2015 lineup, it would make sense to invest in an updated version of that size as the iPhone 5s ages.  Still, the sourcing on today's rumor is not entirely clear and a track record is unknown, so it is difficult to assess the potential validity of the claim. As a result, we would not put too much stock in it for the time being until or unless additional information surfaces in the coming months.  Even without a new 4-inch model this year, iPhone sales have been strong for the new 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, with Apple setting a new sales record in the first weekend of availability. While the iPhone 6 is outselling the 6 Plus, the larger handset is holding its own in the phablet market, accounting for 41 percent of large-screened smartphone sales in the past three months.  Related roundup: iPhone 6
Bart didn’t have a cat in hell’s chance of coming back from the grave — but after being buried for five days, he clawed his way back.  The miracle feline’s misfortune started when he was struck by a car and his grief-stricken owner laid him to rest.  “The cat appeared to be lifeless and the owner buried him. Five days later, the cat showed up in a neighbor’s yard — alive!” the Humane Society of Tampa Bay in Florida told ABC7.com.  The badly hurt, weak and dehydrated kitty dug himself out of the grave and crept back slowly.  Bart needed treatment for facial wounds, a broken jaw and a ruined eye — but his owner couldn’t afford a vet, so he took his pal to the Humane Society.  There is no purrfect ending yet, however, because Bart — who can’t eat due to pain — still has a lot of recovering to do.  He was scheduled to undergo surgery Tuesday to wire his jaw, fix his palette, place a feeding tube and remove his destroyed eye.  Despite the difficult days ahead, the Humane Society expects that Bart will be back home soon — enjoying another of his remaining eight lives.
Hewlett-Packard Co. HPQ +2.00%  plans to break in two, separating its personal-computer and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations, according to people familiar with the matter.  The company plans to announce the move as early as Monday, the people said. It is expected to be effected as a tax-free distribution of shares to the company’s stockholders next year, one of the people said.  The move is one H-P and its investors and analysts have long contemplated. It would come amid a wave of breakups and spinoffs at technology companies and in the wider corporate world, underpinned by the idea that companies with a narrower focus perform better. The moves in many cases have been well-received by shareholders—if not actively sought by them.  On Tuesday, online-auction pioneer eBay Inc. EBAY -0.77%  announced a plan to spin off its PayPal payments-processing unit. Shareholders rewarded eBay’s decision, pushing the company’s shares up about 7.5% that day.  In 2012, under current H-P CEO Meg Whitman, H-P reorganized itself to combine the PC business with its more profitable printer operation.  Ms. Whitman will be chairman of the PC and printer business and CEO of the separate, so-called enterprise company, one of the people said. Current lead independent director Patricia Russo will be chairman of the enterprise company, while Dion Weisler, an executive in the PC and printer operation, is to be CEO of that business, this person said.  In fiscal 2013, the printing and personal systems group, as it is known, inked $55.9 billion in revenue, about half the Palo Alto, Calif., company’s total. Sales for the operation dropped 7.1% amid fierce competition, compared with a 6.7% decline for the company as a whole.  Last year, H-P lost its place as the largest PC maker by shipments, slipping to No. 2 behind China’s Lenovo Group Ltd, according to industry research firm IDC.  H-P, famously founded in a garage in Palo Alto 75 years ago, has been undergoing a multiyear restructuring under Ms. Whitman as the company tries to stem sales declines. Aside from the PC and printer business, the rest of H-P’s revenue comes from selling services and hardware such as servers and data-storage systems to corporations, as well as software and financial services.  H-P’s shares have risen sharply since last year, but are still well below their highs in recent years—and the even loftier levels they reached in the 1990s tech boom. H-P shares increased 2% Friday to $35.20, giving it a market capitalization of nearly $66 billion.  To combat lower sales and provide lift to its shares, H-P has laid off tens of thousands of employees and cut other costs.  Ms. Whitman has sought to push H-P further into growth pockets such as cloud software, but the company has struggled to make headway in such areas.  H-P has also been contemplating big strategic changes lately. Over much of the past year, the company held talks to merge with data-storage giant EMC Corp., but those negotiations, which would have created an industry giant with a market value of roughly $130 billion, recently ended.  Write to Joann S. Lublin at joann.lublin@wsj.com, Dana Mattioli at dana.mattioli@wsj.com and Dana Cimilluca at dana.cimilluca@wsj.com
SAN FRANCISCO -- Apple plans to shut down streaming service Music Beats, according to a published report.  Several prominent employees at Apple and Beats told TechCrunch that Apple planned to discontinue the service.  Re/code says Beats Music the brand may be going away but the service is not.  Apple spokesman Tom Neumayr told Re/code the TechCrunch report is "not true."  Apple bought the service started by Jimmy Iovine and Dr. Dre in May for $3 billion. At the time it had a few hundred thousand subscribers.  Apple could not be immediately reached for comment.
Apple will reportedly be following a few best-practices from traditional jewelry stores when safe-guarding its gold “Edition” Apple Watch models from theft. Apple is planning on several safeguards for their high-end watch models, including a custom safe that will be fitted with Apple Watch MagSafe chargers to keep the demo units charged and ready to go.  Apple Stores to Keep Gold Apple Watches in Custom Safes  9to5Mac:  The safes will likely be used to carry both to-be-sold inventory as well as to store demo units from the show floor overnight. The custom-designed safes will be outfitted with Apple Watch MagSafe chargers in order to keep the demo units charged up and ready to go for the next day of business. Apple has already begun installing the safes in some stores ahead of the Apple Watch’s expected release in April…  In addition to the safes, Apple is also said to be working on ways to allow customers to try on Apple Watches, as well as try different color options and band materials.  9to5Mac also reports that Apple is working on special scales to weigh the amount of gold in each Apple Watch Edition wearable, in order to weigh the amount of gold in the watch upon replacement of return. This will ensure no gold has been removed from the device prior to a return. The gold material is worth a pretty penny in secondary markets.  While we know pricing for the aluminum and glass Apple Watch will start at $349, no official pricing has been announced for the more expensive stainless steel and gold variants. The weighing process does indicate however, that the highest priced variant will carry a substantial amount of gold in it, indicating the price of the device will be quite dear.
According to this 'news' report, which is circulating via social media, DNA testing has confirmed that Michael Jackson is the biological father of American singer Bruno Mars.  Supposedly, Bruno's publicist Vladimir Kershov leaked the private information and was subsequently fired for his actions.  But, claims the article, Bruno's new publicist has nevertheless confirmed that Michael Jackson is indeed Bruno's father.  However, the claims in the story are untrue. No such private information was leaked and there are no credible reports that support the claims.  The bogus story comes from the fake-news website Empire News. Empire News considers itself satirical.  The site includes the following disclaimer:  Empire News is a satirical and entertainment website. We only use invented names in all our stories, except in cases when public figures are being satirized. Any other use of real names is accidental and coincidental. But, alas, because the site presents its fictional stories in news format, many readers tend to believe them and share them accordingly.  Given the number of fake-news 'satire' websites that have sprung up in recent years, it is a good idea to verify any 'news' stories that come your way before you share them. Searching a news portal such as Google News will usually reveal if a circulating story is true.  Example DNA Results Confirm Michael Jackson Is Biological Father Of Bruno Mars NEW YORK, New York - DNA Results Confirm Michael Jackson Is Biological Father Of Bruno Mars Vladimir Kershov, publicist of R&B singer Bruno Mars, has been fired today after he revealed a shocking secret regarding the pop and R&B singer. Kershov leaked private information that revealed that Michael Jackson is Mars’ biological father.       © Depositphotos.com/ Jean_Nelson
The Foley family claims it was threatened by US about ransom payments.
Nope. Argentina’s President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner has not become godmother of a Jewish baby to stop him from becoming a werewolf – despite what you may have read in multiple news reports.  Over the past few days, the story has been reported and unquestioningly re-reported across the echo chamber of the internet, picked up by news organisations around the world including Haaretz, Buzzfeed, The Independent and The Huffington Post.  Like all good urban myths, the articles were based on a grain of truth: by tradition, the seventh son (or daughter) born to an Argentine family is eligible to become the godson (or daughter) of the president. Until this month, the honour had only been bestowed on Christian babies, but on Wednesday, Iair Tawil – not a baby, but the strapping 21-year old son of a rabbi – became the country’s first Jewish presidential godson.  In her Twitter account, Kirchner described Tawil, 21, as “completely sweet” and lit Hanukkah candles with his family.  Tenía razón. Me trajeron de regalo un candelabro de Israel. Me pidieron que encendiera las velas… pic.twitter.com/DVWewmZera  Yo no lo sabía, pero su visita coincidía con la celebración de Hanukkah. El papá, decía que no era una casualidad… pic.twitter.com/o3y5E17Gew  But somehow, the story became entangled with the ancient legend of the lobizón (Argentina’s equivalent to the European werewolf). According to some versions of the myth, the seventh son of the seventh son is particularly prone to fall victim to the curse.  Evidently, the chance meeting of a Latin American president with a colourful myth too good to fact-check proved irresistible – confirming as it did any number of stereotypes about erratic behaviour from national leaders in the continent of magical realism.  But according to Argentine historian Daniel Balmaceda, there is no link between the two traditions. “The local myth of the lobizón is not in any way connected to the custom that began over 100 years ago by which every seventh son (or seventh daughter) born in Argentina becomes godchild to the president,” he said.  That custom began in 1907, when Enrique Brost and Apolonia Holmann, Volga German emigrés from south-eastern Russia asked then-president José Figueroa Alcorta to become godfather to their seventh son, said the historian.  “The couple wanted to maintain a custom from Czarist Russia, where the Tsar was said to become godfather to seventh sons, and Argentina’s president accepted.”  The practice soon became tradition and was passed into law in 1974 by Isabel Perón, the widow of Argentina’s political strongman General Juan Perón, once she succeeded him in the presidential seat after his death in office. As Argentina’s first woman president, Mrs Perón extended the benefit to seventh daughters as well.“The unconnected myth of the lobizón began among Argentina’s “gauchos,” the cowboys of Argentina’s vast cattle-raising Pampas, adapted from the older European werewolf legends,” said Balmaceda.In the Argentinian version, the lobizón transforms into a mixture of pig and dog every Tuesday and Friday night – not just once every full moon. Unlikely other werewolves of myth, the lobizón transmits its curse not through its bite but by passing between the legs of its unfortunate victims.  In Catholic Argentina, large familes are not uncommon: over 120,000 families had seven of more children at last count in 2006. Not all qualify to become presidential god-children as the honour is only given to those in which seven sons are born consecutively, with no daughters in between.  The president with most godsons was Juan Perón, who had 1,982 over three terms in office. He is followed by another Peronist former president, Carlos Menem, who had 1,136 during the 1990s. Fernández has become presidential godmother to some 700 children since taking office in 2007. Earlier this year, she set another precedent, by making the the daughter of a lesbian couple the first presidential godchild.
What began as an Occupy-inspired student sit-in exploded in Hong Kong over the weekend as police responded with excessive force toward peaceful demonstrators, using tear gas, pepper spray, and rubber bullets. The Occupy Central protests spread from Hong Kong’s financial district to just outside the city’s government offices in Admiralty, but the law-enforcement crackdown had the opposite effect, sending thousands more into the streets in solidarity and shutting down portions of the city. The protests have now bled into the work week and riot police have pulled back, at least for now. Here’s what you need to know so far.  What started this?  After 150 years of British rule, Hong Kong was returned to China in 1997, but has operated semi-autonomously under what’s known as “one country, two systems,” outside of Beijing’s communist rule. The promise was that in 2017, Hong Kong would be allowed, for the first time, to elect its own leader (known as chief executive) in democratic elections, instead of having the slot filled by a committee from Beijing. But earlier this summer, China decided a committee was still necessary, and it would select the candidates for Hong Kong’s 2017 elections. Outrage has been building ever since.  Who’s out there?  The protests were organized in part by the Hong Kong Federation of Students, which has since called for an indefinite student strike, the New York Times reports. Young people are everywhere, but not alone. The Hong Kong Professional Teachers’ Union has joined them with a general strike, as have some professionals after the weekend violence — “office workers in slacks and dress shirts mixed with crowds of students in black T-shirts,” according to the Times.  Occupy Central with Love and Peace, meanwhile, is led by a University of Hong Kong law professor named Benny Tai, Businessweek reported earlier this summer. Tai has been organizing for months, and a look at his planning from June now serves as some serious foreshadowing:  At some point, Tai says the movement may follow through on the threat in its name and occupy Central, where most of Hong Kong’s top banks and other financial institutions (as well as Bloomberg) have their offices. Many companies are already taking no chances, developing plans in case demonstrators block the streets and prevent employees from getting to work.  What do they want?  In addition to democratic elections in 2017 and continued autonomy for Hong Kong, as previously promised, protesters are now demanding the resignation of current chief executive Leung Chun-ying. The economics are also less than ideal, and the country could be slipping into a recession.  How is the government reacting?  Not well, especially at first. Here’s a video from the ground of protesters being teargassed, in attacks that look familiar from Ferguson and helped stoke outrage among citizens:  The use of pepper spray has been equally alarming, and is reminiscent of previous Occupy protests in the U.S.  Hong Kong police officer grabs elderly protester, turns and pepper sprays them full in the face: http://t.co/5l0pFtGGTF  As Vox notes, some protesters have taken to using the “hands up, don’t shoot” imagery of the Michael Brown demonstrations in Ferguson. It’s still a powerful image on the other side of the world:  .@attorneycrump Will you please show this to #MikeBrown's parents &let them know that he changed the WORLD! #HongKong pic.twitter.com/3u4FOSnp7x  Protesters in Ferguson have sent a message back:  Heather, a #Ferguson protester, wearing a sign that says "Stay strong #HongKong." pic.twitter.com/9CnqFfERfL  It’s not surprising, then, that Beijing is blaming the West for stoking tensions. From the Times:  A commentary on the website of the People’s Daily, the Chinese Communist Party’s main newspaper, claimed that the upheavals in Hong Kong were instigated by democratic radicals who had sought support from “anti-China forces” in Britain and the United States, and had sought lessons from independence activists in Taiwan. It called them a “gang of people whose hearts belong to colonial rule and who are besotted with ‘Western democracy’.”  Hong Kong has canceled its annual fireworks celebration of China’s National Day on Wednesday, indicating that this thing may continue for the foreseeable future.  “The protesters, they are so young,” a mother of two who joined the protests on Monday told the Times. “They are fighting for our future, for my children’s future.”
